W-20533642-snowflake-connector-1.4.0-kt (#3090)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: snowflake/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/snowflake-connector-fips-config.adoc

Snowflake Connector supports FIPS 140-3 compliant cryptographic operations through integration with BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) security provider. Learn how to configure the connector for FIPS-compliant environments.

== Before You Begin

Make sure you meet these prerequisites for the configuration:

* Mule Runtime 4.10.0 or later
* Snowflake Connector version 1.4.0 or later
* BouncyCastle FIPS libraries v2 or later
* Java 17 or later with FIPS-capable JVM
* Snowflake JDBC Driver - FIPS Edition (required for FIPS environments)

[WARNING]
====
FIPS-Certified JDBC driver required:

Snowflake provides a separate FIPS-certified JDBC driver specifically designed for FIPS 140-3 compliant environments. If you operate in a FIPS environment, you must use the FIPS-certified driver instead of the standard Snowflake JDBC driver.

* Standard driver +
`snowflake-jdbc-<version>.jar` (for non-FIPS environments)
* FIPS driver +
`snowflake-jdbc-fips-<version>.jar` (for FIPS environments)

The FIPS driver is built with FIPS-certified cryptographic libraries and is validated for use in regulated environments. Using the standard driver in a FIPS environment doesn't meet compliance requirements.

> For more information on obtaining the FIPS-certified driver, review the https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc[Snowflake JDBC Driver documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on obtaining the FIPS-certified driver, see the https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc[Snowflake JDBC Driver documentation].
```

* <<configure-bcfips-in-java-security, Configure BCFIPS in Java Security>>
* <<enable-auto-registration, Enable Auto-Registration>>

[NOTE]
====
FIPS approved algorithms only:

Regardless of which configuration option you choose, you must configure the system property `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true` to ensure that the BCFIPS security provider operates exclusively with FIPS-approved algorithms.

The connector doesn't set this property automatically. This is a JVM-wide configuration that affects all applications and processes running in the JVM. The system administrator must set this property manually or through your Mule runtime configuration.

Example:
[source,bash]
----
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----

Without this property, BCFIPS may allow non-FIPS-approved algorithms, which could violate compliance requirements in regulated environments.
====

[[configure-bcfips-in-java-security]]
=== Configure BCFIPS in Java Security (Recommended)

Use this option for production environments because it:

* Manages security configuration from a central location
* Applies consistently across all applications
* Avoids runtime modifications to security infrastructure

> * Follows enterprise security governance practices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this option for production environments to:

* Manage security configuration from a central location
* Apply consistently across all applications
* Avoid runtime modifications to security infrastructure
* Follow enterprise security governance practices
```

Follow these steps:

. Locate your Java security configuration file:
+
----
$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/java.security
----

. Add the BCFIPS provider to the security provider list. Insert it at an appropriate position (typically position 1 or 2):
+
[source,properties]
----
security.provider.1=org.bouncycastle.jcajce.provider.BouncyCastleFipsProvider
security.provider.2=sun.security.provider.Sun
# ... other providers
----

. Make sure the BCFIPS JAR is available in the JVM classpath or the Mule application's shared libraries.

> . Restart your Mule runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Restart your Mule runtime instance.
```

[[enable-auto-registration]]
=== Enable Auto-Registration 

Use this option for environments where modifying `java.security` is not feasible, the connector can automatically register BCFIPS at runtime.

[WARNING]
====
Important security considerations:

* Modifies the JVM-wide security provider configuration
* May conflict with existing security providers
* Requires explicit approval from your security or compliance team
* Should only be used when <<configure-bcfips-in-java-security, configuring BCFIPS in Java Security>> is not possible
====

Follow these steps:

. Set the auto-registration system property:
+
[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.snowflake.fips.bcfips.autoregister=true
----

. Make sure FIPS mode is enabled:
+
[source,bash]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3
----

. The connector automatically registers BCFIPS when establishing the first connection.

Example Mule runtime startup:
[source,bash]
----
java -Dmule.security.model=fips140-3 \
     -Dmule.snowflake.fips.bcfips.autoregister=true \
     -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true \
     -jar mule-standalone.jar
----

== Understanding Standard (Non-FIPS) Mode

> In standard mode (when `mule.security.model` is not set or does not start with `fips140`), the connector automatically handles BCFIPS registration without requiring additional configuration. This ensures seamless operation for non-regulated environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In standard mode (when `mule.security.model` isn't set or doesn't start with `fips140`), the connector automatically handles BCFIPS registration without requiring additional configuration. This ensures seamless operation for non-regulated environments.
```
